# Calculaing stats quickly with fslstats 
Have you ever wondered, or been asked, what the volume of your favorite brain structure is? Maybe a new collaborator would like to know about your SNR and you only have a few minutes to evaluate it. Using fslstats makes it simple to answer these types of questions and extract other statistical information.

You can implement fslstats at any point in your project, as there are no requirements for preprocessing. The command requires that you have a NIFTI image and specify which type of statistic you would like to calculate (e.g., mean, standard deviation, entropy, volume). In return, fslstats will produce a single line of output corresponding with the statistics you requested. You can throw the output into your favorite statistical package and compare across participants or simply gauge whether your analysis is headed the correct direction.

If you would like to look at a subset of your original image, you can also provide a mask image as an argument. The mask image could be anything that fits in the image space of your main image: a simple sphere, the results of a group analysis, or an anatomical region of interest. Really, it is up to your question and your imagination. fslstats will calculate any of the statistics you request, but only for the voxels in your original image that fall under this mask image as well. This can be useful to isolate aspects of your original signal, such as calculating the mean gray matter signal and comparing it to the mean white matter signal. Depending acquisition, that type of comparison can actually give you an indication of whether your processing steps were correct. For example, very high average signal in CSF for an ASL scan could indicate an issue with your pipeline.

Lastly, you can check to see how two images compare by supplying a difference image. There are any number of applications here, including assessing whether a step in your pipeline changes anything or whether two mean maps differ. 

Even though the tool is simple, fslstats can become your best friend as you are assesing and analyzing images. Now it is easy to apply the tool, using this Flywheel Gear.